This is a compiler which compiles a c program into a java program. It has four phases : 
   * Lexer
   * Parser
   * Semantic Analysis
   * Translation

# Lexer 
* This is lexer phase for tokenizing the C program (source language).
* In this phase, only the lexing of the input file (in our case, c program) is done. Basically, this will generate the tokens which will later be parsed to the parser. 
* To verify the proper lexing, syntax highlighting is also done to see the effect of lexing.

### What's done in lexer
* Almost all the keywords in c 
* identifiers
* multiline comments, singleline comments
* directives (#include and #define)
* almost all types of values in c including 
	* int
	* char
	* float
	* long
	* double
* all kinds of seperators in c 
* all kinds of assignments in c 
* all kinds of operators in c
* strings 

### What's left in lexer
* May be some new keywords

### How to run lexer
All test files for Lexer are present in Lexer/Tests folder

**To run three files test1.c, test2.c, test3.c present in Tests folder** 


./driver Tests/test1.c Tests/test2.c Tests/test3.c

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Parser 
* In this phase, the tokens generated by the lexer is used to create grammar for c language
* The ast of C language is also created in this phase.
* To verify the parsing, pretty printing is done to see the effect of parsing.

### What can be parsed 
* Almost primitives types are added :
	* int
	* char
	* void
	* char
	* float
	* double
	* long
* identifiers
* multiline comments, singleline comments
* directives (#include and #define)
* all kinds of seperators in c 
* all kinds of assignments in c (including +=, -=, /=, *=, etc)
* all kinds of operators in c (including bitwise, binary, unary, logical, comparision)
* increment and decrement operators
* ternary operators
* strings 
* Function calls 

**Among the statements, only following statements are allowed : **

* if statement
* if-else statement
* declarations of variables
* declarations with initialization of variables
* return statement
* break statement
* continue statement
* block statement ({...})
* while loop
* (any expression) semicolon 

### What's not covered in parser

* some primitive types are not covered
	* short
	* signed int/char/float/long/double
	* unsigned int/char/float/long/double
	* register
	* static int/char/float/long/double
	* const int/char/float/long/double
* Array types are not covered
* Pointers are not covered
* For loop, do while loop are not covered
* switch statement is not covered
* structures, unions are not covered
* function protoypes are not covered

### How to run parser
All test files for Parser are present in Parser/Tests folder

**To run three files test1.c, test2.c, test3.c present in Tests folder** 


./driver Tests/test1.c Tests/test2.c Tests/test3.c


--------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Semantic Analysis
* In this phase, the semantics of c program is checked and verified.
* In case of some error, the program will stop running giving the error message.
* Symbol table is created in this phase to keep track of variables and functions.

### What's done
* An undeclared variable can not be used
* A variable declared in some different scope can't be used in some other scope
* Global variable can be used in any block/function after it is declared
* Functions should be declared before the call is made, i.e. the function definition should be above in terms of code before function call is made.
* Undefined functions can't be called
* During call a function, number of arguments passed to the function should be same as the number of parameters which were present when function was defined


### How to run
All test files for Semantic phase are present in SemanticAnalysis/Tests folder

**To run three files test1.c, test2.c, test3.c present in Tests folder** 


./driver Tests/test1.c Tests/test2.c Tests/test3.c


--------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Translation
* In this phase, the c program is translated into java program. 
* This phase involves creation of ast for java.
* In the translation module, ast of c is converted into ast of java. 

### What's done 

* Expressions for condition in "if", "while", "ternary" is converted into conditional expressions (or boolean expressions) because java allow only boolean expressions  inside condition part of "if", "while", "ternary" 
* For evaluating expressions, boolean expressions in c (which actually evaluates to 0 or 1) are converted into integer (0 or 1) using ternary operator
* Built-in functions :
      * printf is converted into System.out.printf
      * toupper is converted into Character.toUpperCase
* File name of input file is used to create file name of output file :
      * *Input file-name* : **test1.c** 
      * *Output file-name* : **Test1.java**
* File name of input file is also used to name the main class for output java file : 
      * e.g. if input is "test1.c", then class name is "Test1" in output file
      * this makes sure condition for java which stipulates that class-name should be same as file-name
* All other c operations are translated to java operations 

### What's left
* Directives of c are ignored as they are of no use to java program
* Comments are not printed in the output file just for testing. This part can be easily done by changing one or two lines as comment-style in java and c are same.

### How to run

All test files for Translation are present in Translation/Tests folder. All output files for translations are stored in Translation/Outputs folder.

**To run three files test1.c, test2.c, test3.c present in Tests folder** 



./driver Tests/test1.c Tests/test2.c Tests/test3.c


**This will create three files Test1.java, Test2.java, Test3.java in Translation/Outputs folder.**

### Sample input c program 
> test1.c
```c
#include<stdio.h>

int a = 10;

int main() {

  int b = 10;
  int c = a+10;

}
```
### Sample output 
> Test1.java
```java
import java.util.*;

public class Test1 {

   private static int a = 10;
   public static void main (String[] args) {
      int b = 10;
      int c = a + 10;
   }

}
```